[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7 minute
marketing with him my name is Pam dinner
I love sharing a little dose of b2b
digital content marketing and sales
enablement in seven minutes at a time so
a friend's friend liason reach out to me
and they wanted to know how to make the
transition from a corporate marketer to
independent consultant how did I build
my personal brand how did I get speaking
gigs how did I get interview
opportunities etc so here's what I share
with him don't really worry about what I
did work on the four things first these
four elements will shape what you should
do next number one focus on small wins
if money is an issue and you need to
have income right away the best way is
to contract back with the formal
employers there are always things needs
to be done
assuming that you left on the good terms
contracting back is an option to keep
you afloat
so I told Ryerson to contact his past
employers and see if there's any
opportunities right any kind of
opportunities or anything that he can
offer it will bring the money in right
away
so do that first second network network
network go through your contacting list
set of coffee needs to that everyone and
their mothers know that you are
available and you are looking for
opportunities I told Brian like he needs
to reach out to pass colleagues and
agency people especially agency people
and let them know that he's available
for hire meeting face to face is more
powerful than just a quick email
exchanges right when you are meeting
face to face and you are telling a
person what you can do and that person
is thinking about hey you know if there
is any opportunity that he can help you
out so meeting face to face again is
actually whole lot more beneficial than
just sending a quick email number three
craft your ideal customer profile
I asked why ursin
who are his ideal customers he couldn't
tell me who are the customers that he
wants to work with enterprise marketers
small business owners or what not can he
visualized his customers I told him to
write a 500-word essay about his ideal
customer the writing itself will help
him create or shape or persona which
will guide his value propositions
speaking of value proposition number
four is to define your own value
propositions and offerings why isn't
told me that he is a jack of all trade
but jack of all trades great if people
know you intimately well for people who
don't know you it's very hard to
convince them that you can do everything
so why can't he really offer to his
ideal customers what does his ideal
customer need from him as a consultant
what really differentiates him from
other consultants he needs to define
that for himself I went to a similar
journey I actually define and redefine
and riri define my value proposition
multiple times and this is especially
true after I published my second book
effective sales enablement obviously
it's very different from global content
marketing which is my first book so I
need to think about it how to tie these
two together and then show it to my
target audience or my ideal customers
what I can offer so the value
proposition part it's kind of like a
journey the more you expand or grow your
business that your value proposition
will change does that make sense
so I told myosin to get these that ideal
customer profile and the value
propositions will guy his website
development LinkedIn profile right team
his elevator pitch to potential
customers even his personal brand
development I share with him that this
is not the most difficult part actually
the challenging part comes from bizdev
and the constant promotion himself the
truth is that he needs to promote
himself every day and it doesn't stop
it's a hard work I can attest to it
there are many ways to do sale
promotions and there's no right or wrong
way to do it for me I focus on content
marketing I create original content such
as blogs blog and a podcast to share my
knowledge and expertise I then promote
the content on Facebook Twitter and
LinkedIn everything I do is organic
frankly I should do more pay and
sponsored but I chose to allocate budget
to create content and focus on three
social media channels it's a lone play
really and I also do occasional email
marketing to share useful templates and
relevant content but I'm not very
disciplined about it it's again it's a
resource budget and also prioritization
oh I spend a lot of time on search
engine optimization and the website
speed optimization for biz dev I'm
constantly on LinkedIn to source
potential leads and I follow up with
marketing professional who signed up for
my newsletter or reach out to me via
various media channels everything I said
so far it's only for digital channel
outreach I also attend marketing
conferences networking events and do
coffee means with colleagues friends and
the potential prospects on a regular
basis offline networking is as important
as online digital marketing outreach
client projects and speaking engagements
are the results of a constant digital
offline marketing outreach and the
customers friends referrals and really
there is no shortcut you just have to do
it I told Ryan that he didn't have to do
all that I did everything based on my
budget when I started four years ago my
revenue was small so my marketing
efforts was small now I spend more money
on website search engine optimization
content creation influencer outreach
seems I have more revenue available to
do marketing right takes time effort and
the money you just need to do it and
learn from your mistakes and I keep
working at it
Rison told me that he'll start with my
four suggestions and you'll keep me
posted on how things go
good luck Ryerson a Philippines through
a Career Transition share with me how
you did it love to hear your journey and
your story and you know where to reach
me if you like the podcast I appreciate
that you leave a review on iTunes again
keep hustling my friends you've got this
[Music]